system configuration/wireguard: suggest using NetworkManager (#653)
coreos/fedora-coreos-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/sysconfig-configure-wireguard.adoc

FCOS has full support for WireGuard out of the box. This guide is going to demonstrate how to set up a single connection between a FCOS server and one client computer. It goes over the basic client configuration, but it does not cover installing WireGuard on your clients.

> There are several ways to set up wireguard on FCOS, here we show two approaches:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two options to set up wireguard on FCOS:
```

> There are several ways to set up wireguard on linux, here we suggest importing the wireguard configuration in NetworkManager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several ways to set up Wireguard on FCOS. Here we suggest importing the Wireguard configuration in NetworkManager.
```

 * Using [wg-quick](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/wg-quick.8.html).

>  * importing the Wireguard configuration in NetworkManager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Importing the Wireguard configuration in NetworkManager.
```

> Another popular approach is to use [wg-quick](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/wg-quick.8.html) (also included in fcos but have had [SELinux isues](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker/issues/1487))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another popular approach is to use [wg-quick](https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/wg-quick.8.html) (also included in FCOS but currently has [issues with SELinux](https://github.com/coreos/fedora-coreos-tracker/issues/1487))
```

Author: Not that wg-quick selinux issues have been solved and I have been running wg-quick without issues on my FCOS box.
I will update that PR

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

== Generate Keys

> You will need to generate some keys to configure WireGuard. You can generate the keys on your workstation or a running FCOS system.

Reviewer: ASCIIDOC styling is one sentence per line

          [Peer]
          PublicKey = <client_one_public_key>
          PresharedKey = <fcos_client_one_psk>

>           AllowedIPs = 192.168.71.2/32,fdc9:3c6b:21c7:e6bd::2/128

Reviewer: Hum, this is stricter than what we have now. Any specific reason?

Author: this is to enforce the ip address of the client, but both works i guess

systemd:
  units:
    - name: import-wireguard-config.service
      enabled: true
      contents: |
        [Unit]
        ConditionPathExists=!/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/wg0.nmconnection
        Description=Import wireguard configuration to NetworkManager
        [Service]
        Type=oneshot
        RemainAfterExit=yes
        ExecStart=nmcli connection import type wireguard file /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf
        [Install]
        WantedBy=multi-user.target
----

Note that we setup a oneshot unit to import the configuration in NetworkManager.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Boot FCOS and log in. When you run `sudo wg show` you should see this:

.Check WireGuard configuration on FCOS
[source,bash]
----

> [root@wireguard-demo ~]# wg show

Reviewer: Any specific reason behind this change?

          [Peer]
          PublicKey = <client_one_public_key>
          PresharedKey = <fcos_client_one_psk>
          AllowedIPs = 192.168.71.2/32,fdc9:3c6b:21c7:e6bd::2/128
----

=== Import the wireguard configuration to NetworkManager

You can import the configuration with a simple oneshot unit :
[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
systemd:
  units:
    - name: import-wireguard-config.service
      enabled: true
      contents: |
        [Unit]
        ConditionPathExists=!/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/wg0.nmconnection
        Description=Import wireguard configuration to NetworkManager
        [Service]
        Type=oneshot
        RemainAfterExit=yes
        ExecStart=nmcli connection import type wireguard file /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf
        [Install]
        WantedBy=multi-user.target
----

NOTE: NetworkManager will ignore `PostUp` and `PostDown` directives in the wiregaurd config. If you have firewall configuration to apply, make sure to apply it with a separate unit, or manually.

> NOTE: If you need to make further changes to update Wireguard's configuration, delete the connection and re-import it from the updated configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you need to make further changes to update Wireguard's configuration, delete the connection and re-import it from the updated configuration file.

```

          [Peer]
          PublicKey = <client_one_public_key>
          PresharedKey = <fcos_client_one_psk>
          AllowedIPs = 192.168.71.2/32,fdc9:3c6b:21c7:e6bd::2/128
----

=== Import the wireguard configuration to NetworkManager

You can import the configuration with a simple oneshot unit :
[source,yaml,subs="attributes"]
----
systemd:
  units:

>     - name: import-wireguard-config.service

Reviewer: Same idea with the names here:
```suggestion
    - name: import-wireguard-config@wg0.service
```

      enabled: true
      contents: |
        [Unit]

>         ConditionPathExists=!/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/wg0.nmconnection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ConditionPathExists=!/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/%i.nmconnection
```

        Description=Import wireguard configuration to NetworkManager
        [Service]
        Type=oneshot
        RemainAfterExit=yes

>         ExecStart=nmcli connection import type wireguard file /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ExecStart=nmcli connection import type wireguard file /etc/wireguard/%i.conf
```

       valid_lft forever preferred_lft forever
----

> NOTE: <Client IP address> above is the IP or FQDN of the Client computer.

Reviewer: Any specific reason this line is removed?

Author: re added

> NOTE: If you need to make further changes to update wireguard configuration, simply delete the connection then re-import the updated file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If you need to make further changes to update Wireguard's configuration, then delete the connection and re-import it from an updated configuration file.
```

  endpoint: <Client IP Address>:51821
  allowed ips: 192.168.71.0/24, fdc9:3c6b:21c7:e6bd::/64

> [core@wireguard-demo ~]# sudo ip a s wg0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[core@wireguard-demo ~]$ sudo ip a s wg0
```

          AllowedIPs = 192.168.71.0/24,fdc9:3c6b:21c7:e6bd::/64
systemd:
  units:

>     - name: import-wireguard-config.service

Reviewer: Let's keep the `@wg0` in the unit name to use it in the unit (I think it's `%u`?).

Author: Nice idea ! added.

      enabled: true
      contents: |
        [Unit]

>         ConditionPathExists=!/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/wg0.nmconnection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ConditionPathExists=!/etc/NetworkManager/system-connections/%u.nmconnection
```

        Description=Import wireguard configuration to NetworkManager
        [Service]
        Type=oneshot
        RemainAfterExit=yes

>         ExecStart=nmcli connection import type wireguard file /etc/wireguard/wg0.conf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ExecStart=nmcli connection import type wireguard file /etc/wireguard/%u.conf
```
